linux-container-workshop/hol_content/2_dockerize_apps.md, before:

# Dockerizing Applications

## Build Container Images

For the first container, we will be creating a Dockerfile from scratch. For the other containers, the Dockerfiles are provided.

### Web Container

1. Create a Dockerfile

    * Open Visual Studio Code
    * In the "Linux_Container_Azure_Workshop/app/web" directory, add a file called "Dockerfile"
    * Add the following lines and save:

        ```
        FROM node:carbon

        WORKDIR /usr/src/app
        COPY package*.json ./
        RUN npm install

        COPY . .

        EXPOSE 8080

        CMD [ "npm", "run", "staging" ]
        ```

2. Create a container image for the node.js Web app

    From bash shell: 

    ```
    cd ./Linux_Container_Azure_Workshop/app/web

    docker build -t rating-web .
    ```

3. Validate image was created with `docker images`

### API Container

In this step, the Dockerfile has been created for you. 

1. Create a container image for the node.js API app

    ```
    cd ./Linux_Container_Azure_Workshop/app/api

    docker build -t rating-api .
    ```

2. Validate image was created with `docker images`

### MongoDB Container

1. Create a MongoDB image with data files

    ```
    cd ./Linux_Container_Azure_Workshop/app/db

    docker build -t rating-db .

    # validate the image is created
    docker images
    ```

2. Validate image was created with `docker images`


## Run Containers

### MongoDB Container

1. Run mongo container

    ```
    docker run -d --name db -p 27017:27017 rating-db
    ```

2. Validate by running `docker ps -a`

3. Import data into database

    ```
    docker exec -it db bash
    ```

    You will have a prompt inside the mongo container. From that prompt, run the import script (`./import.sh`)

    ```
    root@61f9894538d0:/# ./import.sh
    2018-01-10T19:26:07.746+0000	connected to: localhost
    2018-01-10T19:26:07.761+0000	imported 4 documents
    2018-01-10T19:26:07.776+0000	connected to: localhost
    2018-01-10T19:26:07.787+0000	imported 72 documents
    ```

### API Container

1. Run api app container

    ```
    docker run -d --name api -p 3000:3000 rating-api
    ```

2. Validate by running `docker ps -a`

3. Test api app by browsing to http://localhost:3000 

### Web Container

1. Run web app container

    ```
    docker run -d --name web -p 8080:8080 rating-web
    ```

2. Validate by running `docker ps -a`

3. Test web app by browsing to http://localhost:8080


## Azure Container Registry (ACR)

Now that we have container images for our application components, we need to store them in a secure, central location. In this lab we will use Azure Container Registry for this.

1. Create Azure Container Registry instance


2. Tag images with repository


3. Push images to registry


4. Validate

Commit message:

updates to docker create crap

linux-container-workshop/hol_content/2_dockerize_apps.md, after:

# Dockerizing Applications

## Build Container Images

For the first container, we will be creating a Dockerfile from scratch. For the other containers, the Dockerfiles are provided.

### Web Container

1. Create a Dockerfile

    * Open Visual Studio Code
    * In the "Linux_Container_Azure_Workshop/app/web" directory, add a file called "Dockerfile"
    * Add the following lines and save:

        ```
        FROM node:carbon

        WORKDIR /usr/src/app
        COPY package*.json ./
        RUN npm install

        COPY . .

        EXPOSE 8080

        CMD [ "npm", "run", "staging" ]
        ```

2. Create a container image for the node.js Web app

    From bash shell: 

    ```
    cd ./Linux_Container_Azure_Workshop/app/web

    docker build -t rating-web .
    ```

3. Validate image was created with `docker images`

### API Container

In this step, the Dockerfile has been created for you. 

1. Create a container image for the node.js API app

    ```
    cd ./Linux_Container_Azure_Workshop/app/api

    docker build -t rating-api .
    ```

2. Validate image was created with `docker images`

### MongoDB Container

1. Create a MongoDB image with data files

    ```
    cd ./Linux_Container_Azure_Workshop/app/db

    docker build -t rating-db .
    ```

2. Validate image was created with `docker images`


## Run Containers

### Setup Docker Network

Create a docker bridge network to allow the containers to communicate internally. 

    ```
    docker network create --subnet=172.18.0.0/16 my-network
    ```

### MongoDB Container

1. Run mongo container

    ```
    docker run -d --name db --net my-network --ip 172.18.0.10 -p 27017:27017 rating-db
    ```

2. Validate by running `docker ps -a`

3. Import data into database

    ```
    docker exec -it db bash
    ```

    You will have a prompt inside the mongo container. From that prompt, run the import script (`./import.sh`)

    ```
    root@61f9894538d0:/# ./import.sh
    2018-01-10T19:26:07.746+0000	connected to: localhost
    2018-01-10T19:26:07.761+0000	imported 4 documents
    2018-01-10T19:26:07.776+0000	connected to: localhost
    2018-01-10T19:26:07.787+0000	imported 72 documents
    ```

4. Type `exit` to exit out of container

### API Container

1. Run api app container

    ```
    docker run -d --name api --net my-network --ip 172.18.0.11 -p 3000:3000 rating-api
    ```

2. Validate by running `docker ps -a`

3. Test api app by browsing to http://localhost:3000/api/heroes 

### Web Container

1. Run web app container

    ```
    docker run -d --name web --net my-network --ip 172.18.0.12 -p 8080:8080 -e "API=http://localhost:3000/api" -e "SITE=http://localhost:8080/static/data/site.json" -e "HEROES=http://localhost:8080/static/data/heroes.json" rating-web
    ```

    > Note that environment variables are used here to direct the web page to necessary components.

2. Validate by running `docker ps -a`

3. Test web app by browsing to http://localhost:8080


## Azure Container Registry (ACR)

Now that we have container images for our application components, we need to store them in a secure, central location. In this lab we will use Azure Container Registry for this.

1. Create Azure Container Registry instance


2. Tag images with repository


3. Push images to registry


4. Validate
