labs/day1-labs/01-setup-app-local.md, before:

# Initial Setup and Running App on Local Machine(Jumpbox)

## Work Environment

There are two environments you will be working in for the exercises today.

1. **Jumpbox:** The apps and containers must be run on a Linux machine. Use your newly created [Jumpbox](/labs/day1-labs/00-lab-environment.md) for this exercise.

    > Note: If you have bash or ssh available on your machine, it is easiest to access the jump box via SSH. 
    
2. **Azure Cloud Shell:** The Azure Cloud Shell will be accessed by logging into the Azure Portal (http://portal.azure.com).

![#f03c15](https://placehold.it/15/f03c15/000000?text=+) **Labs 1 and 2 require the Jumpbox. The subsequent labs can either be done in the Azure Cloud Shell or Jumpbox. Stick to either Jumpbox or Cloud Shell. Do not use both of them.**

## Clone Lab Github Repo

Once you have accessed the jumpbox, you must clone the workshop repo to the machine.

1. Start with a terminal on the jumpbox
2. Clone the Github repo via the command line

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/Azure/blackbelt-aks-hackfest.git
    ```

## Get Applications up and running

### Database layer - MongoDB

The underlying data store for the app is [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/ "MongoDB Homepage"). It is already running(we installed MongoDB during Jumpbox setup). We need to import the data for our application.

1. Import the data using a terminal session on the jumpbox

    ```bash
    cd ~/blackbelt-aks-hackfest/app/db

    mongoimport --host localhost:27019 --db webratings --collection heroes --file ./heroes.json --jsonArray 
    mongoimport --host localhost:27019 --db webratings --collection ratings --file ./ratings.json --jsonArray
    mongoimport --host localhost:27019 --db webratings --collection sites --file ./sites.json --jsonArray
    ```

### API Application layer - Node.js

The API for the app is written in javascript, running on [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/ "Node.js Homepage") and [Express](http://expressjs.com/ "Express Homepage")

1. Update dependencies and run app via node in a terminal session on the jumpbox

    ```bash
    cd ~/blackbelt-aks-hackfest/app/api

    npm install && npm run localmachine
    ```
    
   The terminal will show the message saying ``` CONNECTED TO mongodb://localhost:27019/webratings ``` 
   
   **Leave the terminal as such and proceed to next step**

2. Open a new terminal session on the jumpbox and test the API

    use curl
    ```bash
    curl http://localhost:3000/api/heroes
    ```
    
### Web Application layer - Vue.js, Node.js

The web frontend for the app is written in [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/Vue "Vue.js Homepage"), running on [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/ "Node.js Homepage") with [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/ "Webpack Homepage")

1. Open a new terminal session on the jumpbox
2. Update dependencies and run app via node

    ```bash
    cd ~/blackbelt-aks-hackfest/app/web

    npm install && npm run localmachine
    ```
3. Test the web front-end

    To test the web front-end via the internet you've to grab your ip address from the Azure Portal and enable access to port 8080.
    
    * Goto portal.azure.com
    * Select your Jumpbox VM
    * Goto Networking
    * Select 'Add inbound'
    * Add a new inbound security rule for Port 8080/TCP
       

    You can test the web app from a new terminal session in the jumpbox
    ```bash
    curl http://localhost:8080
    ```

## Clean-up

![#f03c15](https://placehold.it/15/f03c15/000000?text=+) > **Important!** Close the web and api apps in the terminal windows by hitting `ctrl-c` in each of the corresponding terminal windows

Commit message:

update language to 01-setup-app-local.md
Update to language ensuring user uses the sudo command again and ensures that they understand at least two sessions will need to be open along with the terminal that will be used to test curl. This is also part of the process for how Node.js works so we will give a primer on this as well in Day 0

labs/day1-labs/01-setup-app-local.md, after:

# Initial Setup and Running App on Local Machine(Jumpbox)

## Work Environment

There are two environments you will be working in for the exercises today.

1. **Jumpbox:** The apps and containers must be run on a Linux machine. Use your newly created [Jumpbox](/labs/day1-labs/00-lab-environment.md) for this exercise.

    > Note: If you have bash or ssh available on your machine, it is easiest to access the jump box via SSH. 
    
2. **Azure Cloud Shell:** The Azure Cloud Shell will be accessed by logging into the Azure Portal (http://portal.azure.com).

![#f03c15](https://placehold.it/15/f03c15/000000?text=+) **Labs 1 and 2 require the Jumpbox. The subsequent labs can either be done in the Azure Cloud Shell or Jumpbox. Stick to either Jumpbox or Cloud Shell. Do not use both of them.**

## Clone Lab Github Repo

Once you have accessed the jumpbox, you must clone the workshop repo to the machine.

1. Start with a terminal on the jumpbox
2. Clone the Github repo via the command line

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/Azure/blackbelt-aks-hackfest.git
    ```

## Get Applications up and running

### Database layer - MongoDB

The underlying data store for the app is [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/ "MongoDB Homepage"). It is already running(we installed MongoDB during Jumpbox setup). We need to import the data for our application.

1. Import the data using a terminal session on the jumpbox

    ```bash
    cd ~/blackbelt-aks-hackfest/app/db

    mongoimport --host localhost:27019 --db webratings --collection heroes --file ./heroes.json --jsonArray 
    mongoimport --host localhost:27019 --db webratings --collection ratings --file ./ratings.json --jsonArray
    mongoimport --host localhost:27019 --db webratings --collection sites --file ./sites.json --jsonArray
    ```

### API Application layer - Node.js

The API for the app is written in javascript, running on [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/ "Node.js Homepage") and [Express](http://expressjs.com/ "Express Homepage")

1. Update dependencies and run app via node in a terminal session on the jumpbox

    ```bash
    cd ~/blackbelt-aks-hackfest/app/api

    npm install && npm run localmachine
    ```
    
   The terminal will show the message saying ``` CONNECTED TO mongodb://localhost:27019/webratings ``` 
   
   **Leave the terminal session open as such and proceed to next step. A new session will be opened in parrallel in the next step**

2. Open a new terminal session on the jumpbox and test the API

    use curl
    ```bash
    curl http://localhost:3000/api/heroes
    ```
    
### Web Application layer - Vue.js, Node.js

The web frontend for the app is written in [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/Vue "Vue.js Homepage"), running on [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/ "Node.js Homepage") with [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/ "Webpack Homepage")

1. Open a new terminal session on the jumpbox
**This will most likely be a third terminal session that will be opened**

2. Elevate your session using the command
  `sudo su -`
  
2. Update dependencies and run app via node

    ```bash
    cd ~/blackbelt-aks-hackfest/app/web

    npm install && npm run localmachine
    ```
3. Test the web front-end

    To test the web front-end via the internet you've to grab your ip address from the Azure Portal and enable access to port 8080.
    
    * Goto portal.azure.com
    * Select your Jumpbox VM
    * Goto Networking
    * Select 'Add inbound'
    * Add a new inbound security rule for Port 8080/TCP
       

    You can test the web app from a new terminal session in the jumpbox
    ```bash
    curl http://localhost:8080
    ```

## Clean-up

![#f03c15](https://placehold.it/15/f03c15/000000?text=+) > **Important!** Close the web and api apps in the terminal windows by hitting `ctrl-c` in each of the corresponding terminal windows
