# What is Kubernetes?
_Type: Presentation_

_Duration: 5 mins_

Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.

It groups containers that make up an application into logical units for easy management and discovery. Kubernetes builds upon 15 years of experience of running production workloads at Google, combined with best-of-breed ideas and practices from the community.

## Kubernetes Notable Features

* Automatic binpacking - Automatically places containers based on their resource requirements and other constraints, while not sacrificing availability. Mix critical and best-effort workloads in order to drive up utilization and save even more resources.
* Self-healing - Restarts containers that fail, replaces and reschedules containers when nodes die, kills containers that don't respond to your user-defined health check, and doesn't advertise them to clients until they are ready to serve.
* Horizontal scaling - Scale your application up and down with a simple command, with a UI, or automatically based on CPU usage.
* Service discovery and load balancing - No need to modify your application to use an unfamiliar service discovery mechanism. Kubernetes gives containers their own IP addresses and a single DNS name for a set of containers, and can load-balance across them.
* Automated rollouts and rollbacks - Kubernetes progressively rolls out changes to your application or its configuration, while monitoring application health to ensure it doesn't kill all your instances at the same time. If something goes wrong, Kubernetes will rollback the change for you. Take advantage of a growing ecosystem of deployment solutions.
* Secret and configuration management - Deploy and update secrets and application configuration without rebuilding your image and without exposing secrets in your stack configuration.
* Storage orchestration - Automatically mount the storage system of your choice, whether from local storage, a public cloud provider such as Azure, GCP, or AWS, or a network storage system such as NFS, iSCSI, Gluster, Ceph, Cinder, or Flocker.

## What can Kubernetes do for you?

With modern web services, users expect applications to be available 24/7, and developers expect to deploy new versions of those applications several times a day. Containerization helps package software to serve these goals, enabling applications to be released and updated in an easy and fast way without downtime. Kubernetes helps you make sure those containerized applications run where and when you want, and helps them find the resources and tools they need to work. Kubernetes is a production-ready, open source platform designed with these goals in mind.