# Pushing an image to Azure Container Registry
_Type: Lab_

_Duration: 5 mins_

Azure Container Registry is a managed Docker container registry service used for storing private Docker container images.

### Create an ACR using Azure CLI
1. Create an ACR instance using the az acr create command. The name of the registry must be unique.
```
az acr create --resource-group myResourceGroup --name odlacrxxx --sku Basic
```

### Log in to ACR
2. Before pushing and pulling container images, you must log in to the ACR instance. To do so, use the az acr login command.
```
az acr login --name odlacrxxx
```
* You should see a confirmation in the terminal
```
Login Succeeded
```

### Push an Image to ACR
3. To push an image to an Azure Container registry, you must first have an image. We will use the image you created in the previous lab. To list you images:
```
docker images
```
4. Before you can push an image to your registry, you must tag it with the fully qualified name of your ACR login server. Run the following command to obtain the full login server name of the ACR instance.
```
docker tag my-nginx-image odlacrxxx.azurecr.io/my-nginx-image:v1
```
5. Finally, use docker push to push the image to the ACR instance.
```
docker push odlacrxxx.azurecr.io/my-nginx-image:v1
```

### List container Images and their tags in ACR
6. You can output the list of repositories in your registry by using the ``az acr repository list`` command.
```
az acr repository list --name odlacrxxx --output table
```
7. You can also list the different tags associated to your repository.
```
az acr repository show-tags --name odlacrxxx --repository my-nginx-image --output table
```

## Extra Credit

Push a v2 of the my-nginx-image container image
1. Edit the index .html with a new message
2. Make a new build from the Dockerfile, makie sure to correctly tag the image with your acr server and v2 tag during the build command.
3. Push your v2 image to your ACR

