# Building your first Container
_Type: Lab_ 

_Duration: 10 mins_

## Writing a Dockerfile
The first line of the Dockerfile should be FROM nginx:1.11-alpine

### Clone the Course Github repository to your local machine
* Open your terminal window
* Git clone the repo
```
git clone https://github.com/evillgenius75/K8S-HACKFEST-BEGINNER
```
* Change directory into the course labs directory
```
cd K8S-HACKFEST-BEGINNER/LabFiles/01.01.01/
```
* Launch your VSCode editor 
```
code .
```
### Edit the Dockerfile to build your Container Image
* Open the file named ``Dockerfile``
* add a FROM statement to build from the base nginx docker image
```
FROM nginx:1.11-alpine
```
* A new index.html file has been created for you which we want to serve from our container. On the next line after the FROM command, use the COPY command to copy index.html into a directory called /usr/share/nginx/html
```
COPY index.html /usr/share/nginx/html/index
```
* We want our web server to be accessible via port 80, add the relevant EXPOSE line to the Dockerfile.
```
EXPOSE 80
```
* The command to run NGINX is nginx -g daemon off;. Set this as the default command in the Dockerfile.
```
CMD ["nginx", "-g", "daemon off;"]
```
* Save your file

### Build your container image from the Dockerfile
* Using the ``docker build`` command to build the image. You can give the image a friendly name by using the ``-t <name>`` option.
```
docker build -t my-nginx-image:latest .
```
* List your images to ensure the image was created
```
docker images
```

### Run your newly built image as a container locally
* Launch an instance of your newly built image using either the ID result from the build command or the friendly name you assigned it.
* NGINX is designed to run as a background service so you should include the option -d. To make the web server accessible, bind it to port 8080 on the localhost and port 80 on the container using p 80:80
```
docker run -d -p 8080:80 my-nginx-image:latest
```
* You can access the launched web server via the hostname localhost. After launching the container, if you curl the endpoint it will return our index file via NGINX and the image we built.
```
curl http://localhost:8080
```

