linux-container-workshop/hol-content/03-aks-build.md, before:

# Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Deployment

## Create AKS cluster

1. Login to Azure Portal at http://portal.azure.com. Your Azure login ID will look something like `odl_user_9294@gbbossteamoutlook.onmicrosoft.com`
2. Open the Azure Cloud Shell

    ![Azure Cloud Shell](img/cloudshell.png "Azure Cloud Shell")

3. The first time Cloud Shell is started will require you to create a storage account. In our lab, you must click `Advanced` and enter an account name and share.

4. Once your cloud shell is started, clone the workshop repo into the cloud shell environment
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/Azure/blackbelt-aks-hackfest.git
    ```

5. In the cloud shell, you are automatically logged into your Azure subscription. ```az login``` is not required.
    
6. Verify your subscription is correctly selected as the default
    ```
    az account list
    ```

7. Find your RG name

    ```
    az group list

    [
    {
        "id": "/subscriptions/b23accae-e655-44e6-a08d-85fb5f1bb854/resourceGroups/ODL-aks-v2-gbb-8386",
        "location": "centralus",
        "managedBy": null,
        "name": "ODL-aks-v2-gbb-8386",
        "properties": {
        "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
        },
        "tags": {
        "AttendeeId": "8391",
        "LaunchId": "486",
        "LaunchType": "ODL",
        "TemplateId": "1153"
        }
    }
    ]

    # grab the name from the results above and set to a variable 
    
    NAME=ODL-aks-v2-gbb-8386
    
    ```

8. Create your AKS cluster in the resource group created above with 2 nodes, targeting Kubernetes version 1.7.7
    ```
    # This command will take a number of minutes to run as it is creating the AKS cluster
    
    az aks create -n $NAME -g $NAME -c 2 -k 1.7.7 --generate-ssh-keys
    ```

9. Get the Kubernetes config files for your new AKS cluster
    ```
    az aks get-credentials -n $NAME -g $NAME
    ```

10. Verify you have API access to your new AKS cluster
    ```
    kubectl get nodes
    ```

You should now have a Kubernetes cluster running with 2 nodes. You do not see the master servers for the cluster because these are managed by Microsoft. The Control Plane services which manage the Kubernetes cluster such as scheduling, API access, configuration data store and object controllers are all provided as services to the nodes.

Commit message:

Challenge 2 has an issue with the external DNS name giving "Invalid Host header", so I am recommending that they use the public IP address instead. For challenge 3, you cannot create a new AKS cluster unless the "-n" parameter has no underscore. My "az group list" had an underscore, so I'm going to be using the CLUSTER_NAME parameter from now on, which removes the "_" from the name. For challenge 5 and challenge 7, I'm using the 'jq' CLI tool in order to directly get the JSON 'name' variable from az group list and also instructing the users to Open an RDP session instead of a terminal session, as they will be able to open the Kubernetes dashboard directly via RDP.

linux-container-workshop/hol-content/03-aks-build.md, after:

# Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Deployment

## Create AKS cluster

1. Login to Azure Portal at http://portal.azure.com. Your Azure login ID will look something like `odl_user_9294@gbbossteamoutlook.onmicrosoft.com`
2. Open the Azure Cloud Shell

    ![Azure Cloud Shell](img/cloudshell.png "Azure Cloud Shell")

3. The first time Cloud Shell is started will require you to create a storage account. In our lab, you must click `Advanced` and enter an account name and share.

4. Once your cloud shell is started, clone the workshop repo into the cloud shell environment
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/Azure/blackbelt-aks-hackfest.git
    ```

5. In the cloud shell, you are automatically logged into your Azure subscription. ```az login``` is not required.
    
6. Verify your subscription is correctly selected as the default
    ```
    az account list
    ```

7. Find your RG name

    ```
    az group list

    [
    {
        "id": "/subscriptions/b23accae-e655-44e6-a08d-85fb5f1bb854/resourceGroups/ODL-aks-v2-gbb-8386",
        "location": "centralus",
        "managedBy": null,
        "name": "ODL-aks-v2-gbb-8386",
        "properties": {
        "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
        },
        "tags": {
        "AttendeeId": "8391",
        "LaunchId": "486",
        "LaunchType": "ODL",
        "TemplateId": "1153"
        }
    }
    ]

    # grab the name from the results above and set to a variable 
    
    NAME=ODL-aks-v2-gbb-8386

    # We need to use a different cluster name, as sometimes the name in the group list has an underscore, and only dashes are permitted
    
    CLUSTER_NAME="${NAME//_}"
    
    ```

8. Create your AKS cluster in the resource group created above with 2 nodes, targeting Kubernetes version 1.7.7
    ```
    # This command will take a number of minutes to run as it is creating the AKS cluster
    
    az aks create -n $CLUSTER_NAME -g $NAME -c 2 -k 1.7.7 --generate-ssh-keys
    ```

9. Get the Kubernetes config files for your new AKS cluster
    ```
    az aks get-credentials -n $CLUSTER_NAME -g $NAME
    ```

10. Verify you have API access to your new AKS cluster
    ```
    kubectl get nodes
    ```

You should now have a Kubernetes cluster running with 2 nodes. You do not see the master servers for the cluster because these are managed by Microsoft. The Control Plane services which manage the Kubernetes cluster such as scheduling, API access, configuration data store and object controllers are all provided as services to the nodes.
