linux-container-workshop/hol-content/05-kubernetes-ui.md, before:

# Kubernetes Dashboard

The Kubernetes dashboard is a web ui that lets you view, monitor, and troubleshoot Kubernetes resources. 

### Accessing The Dashboard UI

There are multiple ways of accessing Kubernetes dashboard. You can access through kubectl command-line interface or through the master server API. We'll be using kubectl, as it provides a secure connection, that doesn't expose the UI to the internet.

1. Command-Line Proxy

    * Open a terminal session
    * Run ```kubectl proxy```
    * This creates a local proxy to 127.0.0.1:8001
    * Open a web browser and point to: <http://127.0.0.1:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/kube-system/services/kubernetes-dashboard/#!/cluster?namespace=default>

### Explore Kubernetes Dashboard

1. In the Kubernetes Dashboard select nodes to view
![](img/ui_nodes.png)
2. Explore the different node properties avalabile through the dashboard
3. Explore the different pod properties avaliable through the dashboard ![](img/ui_pods.png)
4. In this lab feel free to take a look around other at  other resources Kubernetes provides through the dashboard

Commit message:

Updates for Azure Cloud Shell

linux-container-workshop/hol-content/05-kubernetes-ui.md, after:

# Kubernetes Dashboard

The Kubernetes dashboard is a web ui that lets you view, monitor, and troubleshoot Kubernetes resources. 

> Note: The Kubernetes dashboard is a secured endpoint and can only be accessed using the SSH keys for the cluster. Since cloud shell runs in the browser, it is not possible to tunnel to the dashboard using the steps below.

### Accessing The Dashboard UI

There are multiple ways of accessing Kubernetes dashboard. You can access through kubectl command-line interface or through the master server API. We'll be using kubectl, as it provides a secure connection, that doesn't expose the UI to the internet.

1. Command-Line Proxy

    * Open a terminal session
    * Run ```kubectl proxy```
    * This creates a local proxy to 127.0.0.1:8001
    * Open a web browser and point to: <http://127.0.0.1:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/kube-system/services/kubernetes-dashboard/#!/cluster?namespace=default>

### Explore Kubernetes Dashboard

1. In the Kubernetes Dashboard select nodes to view
![](img/ui_nodes.png)
2. Explore the different node properties avalabile through the dashboard
3. Explore the different pod properties avaliable through the dashboard ![](img/ui_pods.png)
4. In this lab feel free to take a look around other at  other resources Kubernetes provides through the dashboard
